As most people know, Washington
had his eye on the West, from his young ages.
He personally, went out three different times,
Get ready!
to fight
the French, in the area around Pittsburgh.
After the Revolution, he made a trip
and went down the Ohio River,
checking out the land, what was it like?
He didn't see the America in his vision
as being just the Atlantic Front.
He was always looking west.
By 1760, Americans are already moving
west of the Alleghenies.
Washington realizes these numbers will grow.
So he helps create the Potomac Company.
It hopes to connect the Eastern Seaboard,
with the resource-rich Ohio Valley,
by improving navigation along the Potomac River.
And then of course, if that ever happens,
it's all gonna be coming out of the Port of Alexandria
Which is just down the road from Mt. Vernon.
So it's a win/win.
It's good for the country, it's good for Virginia,
and it's good for Mt. Vernon.
The Potomac Company fails
as a business venture.
In part, because of daunting engineering challenges
along the route.
But Washington's vision of a nation
stretching across the continent,
never diminishes.
He advocates putting the nation's capitol
on the banks of the Potomac,
convinced it will be a primary route westward.
And, in 1792, Washington welcomes Kentucky,
and then Tennessee into the Union.
The first states beyond the Allegheny Mountains.
All of his life, if you imagine him
standing at Mt. Vernon, and looking to what
he saw as the future, he was facing west.
He saw it, he believed it, he lived it.
He was not facing east, toward Europe.
He was a man of America.